---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Smart Questions Analysis"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2024-09-12
published: true
labels:
  - Questions
  - Answers
  - StackOverflow
---

One of the most important skills for not only a software engineer, but many careers and life in general is communication. Effective communication can greatly assist a person in daily life, and one of the key aspects of communication is learning how to ask good questions. In Eric Raymond’s How to Ask Questions the Smart Way, he describes the proper steps to take before asking a question, and how to properly formulate the question in order to indicate the steps you have taken in order to try and attempt the question yourself and what you’ve learned through your own research. This technical essay will analyze two different questions from stack overflow in order to see the difference it makes to ask a smart question.
Firstly, let’s analyze the “smart” question. A user is asking “How to Display Image in Flask after a button is pressed.” In this question, the user clearly defines the goal and not the step, which is an important part in Eric Raymond’s process. They clearly indicate that the goal is to display an image on a local web server when a button is pressed on the web page. By doing so, the reply was able to be helpful, simple, and to the point. The reply simply gave an example to the user with simple code that can be modified to fit the user’s needs. The questioner also shows that they have done their own research by posting their code to show they have attempted the problem on their own. 
	Next, let’s analyze a question that does not follow the smart question guidelines. A user asks how to “shift object to last index of an array.” This question does not indicate that the user has attempted the problem themselves at all. They have not shown any research, and the question seems like a homework question, which should not be posted looking for the solutions. The user is also not very clear about their question at first and decides to post blocks of code as examples, so the person who answers the question would have to take slightly more time to understand the question, which is not too much of a problem in this case with how simple the question is, but does not properly follow the principles of a smart question. One good aspect about this question is the header being clear and concise, so people who answer can quickly understand the problem.Now let us try to improve the question. We will start by stating our purpose and goal and state “I am trying to select an object inside of an array and move it to the last index.” This describes the goal and not the step and clearly conveys the problem, ideally afterwards I would post my attempts and code to indicate I have attempted the problem, but this question looks relatively simple and it is most-likely the user has not done adequate research in order to answer the question, so this question should probably not be posted in the first place.
Overall, there are many factors to consider when asking a smart question to a forum. While most questions will not follow every single guideline of a smart question, the people who have made attempts to ask a smart question as best as they possibly can are made clear compared to the ones who have not. People who can effectively communicate their goal and their question, while demonstrating the attempts they have already made to avoid any answers containing strategies they have already tried will be able to have quick and concise answers containing information they need. 

